add C# documentationFile feature (#2103)
premake/premake-core: website/docs/documentationFile.md

---
title: documentationFile
---

Enable C# xmlDocumentationFile

# Usage (2) #
the xmlDocumentationFile is used for adding the [xml comments](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/xmldoc/) added to functions to a dll that has been packed inside a framework or other C# related dll that is refernced inside another project.

> this feature sets the [documentationFIle](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/output#documentationfile) option inside csproj for each corresponding [configuration](https://premake.github.io/docs/configurations/)

Reviewer: Make sure that the capitalization is correct throughout this file.

## 1) Default ##

when you put documentationFile inside the project, the following filename/path will be generated:
```%{targetdir}/%{prj.name}.xml```
```lua
documentationFile ""
```

## 2) Custom Directory ##

when you put the following inside the project the following filename/path will be generated:
```bin\test\%{prj.name}.xml```

```lua
documentationFile "bin/test"
```
<b>the path is rellative to the projects [location](https://premake.github.io/docs/location/)

### Applies To ###

The `project` scope.

### Availability ###

Visual Studio 2005

## <b>NOTE !</b> ##

> it is recommended to use the default option because visualStudio can only apply the xmlDocumentationFile when it is placed dirrectly next to the corresponding dll.

Reviewer: Visual Studio

> ---

Reviewer: Take a look at the other files in the folder for API references (https://github.com/premake/premake-core/blob/master/website/docs/includedirs.md?plain=1).

Typical format is:

Description

Example API Usage

Applies To

Availability

Examples

See Also (Put links out to MSFT docs here)

title: documentationfile
---

> Enable C# xmlDocumentationFile

Reviewer: Please go through this and fix spacing, capitalization, etc.  It probably makes more sense to do "Documentation File" vs "DocumentationFile" as well.

# Usage (2) #
the DocumentationFile is used for adding the [xml comments](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/xmldoc/) added to functions/ variables, to a dll that has been packed inside a framework or other C# related.
this can then be referenced inside another project by placing it next to the corresponding dll.

this feature sets the [DocumentationFile](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/output#documentationfile) option inside csproj for each corresponding [configuration](https://premake.github.io/docs/configurations/)

## 1) Default ##

when you put documentationfile inside the project, the following filename/path will be generated:
```%{targetdir}/%{prj.name}.xml```
```lua
documentationfile ""
```

## 2) Custom Directory ##

> when you put the following inside the project the following filename/path will be generated:

Reviewer: Is there a technical requirement from VS that the documentation must have a name matching that of the project or binary output, or is it a self-impose limitation to make life easier?

Author: Yes visual studio cannot recognise the xml file!

```bin\test\%{prj.name}.xml```

```lua
documentationfile "bin/test"
```

> <b>the path is rellative to the projects [location](https://premake.github.io/docs/location/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<b>the path is relative to the project [location](https://premake.github.io/docs/location/)
```

> <b>The path is relative to the project [location](https://premake.github.io/docs/location/)

Reviewer 2: I think that all other paths as written relative from premake5.lua

There are indeed (pre/post build/link) commands which requires extra `%[]` for that.

Wonder if it is relevant to not be consistent with that api...

Author: that is what i meant it is relevant to the project configuration (premake5.lua)

Reviewer 2: `documentationfile "bin/test"` versus `documentationfile "%{prj.location}/bin/test"`
Other APIs use the second version.

Author: changed it!

### Applies To ###

The `project` scope.

### Availability ###

Visual Studio 2005

## <b>NOTE !</b> ##

> it is recommended to use the default option because Visual Studio can only apply the DocumentationFile when it is placed dirrectly next to the corresponding dll.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it is recommended to use the default option because Visual Studio can only apply the DocumentationFile when it is placed directly next to the corresponding dll.
```
